---
layout: post
title: "Turning 22"
date: 2024-04-23
---

> "May 13, 1822. In twelve days I shall be nineteen years old; which I count a miserable thing. Has any other educated person lived so many years and lost so many days?...
>
> Look next from the history of my intellect to the history of my heart. A blank, my lord. I have not the kind affectations of a pigeon. Ungenerous & selfish, cautious & cold, I yet wish to be romantic. Have not sufficient feeling to speak a naturally hearty welcome to a friend or stranger and yet send abroad wishes & fancies of a friendship with a man I never knew. There is not in the whole wide Universe of God (my relations to Himself I do not understand) one being to whom I am attached with warm & entire devotion, -- not a being to whom I have joined fate for weal or wo, not one whose interests I have nearly & dearly at heart; -- and this I say at the most susceptible age of man."
>
> — Ralph Waldo Emerson

In a few hours, I will be turning 22. Since graduating high school (in November 2019), and especially since getting into MIT (December 19th 2021), life has been a blur. The past two and a half years have been characterized by the most drastic external changes, including moving to a new country, starting college, and navigating everything that comes with being a young adult, from relationships to dreams.

I came to the US, excited to meet people who I will actually feel natural around, since most of my prior relationships (friends and family alike) didn't reach the glorified image I had of lifelong camaraderie. I had a faint idea of what I wanted to study and do with my life professionally, otherwise.

Now, two years since, the most important thing I've learnt at MIT is the nobility of work, and intimations of the shape of work I'd like to do over the course of my lifetime. Navigating late teens has also taught me more than I was cocky enough to think I know about human relationships; the core of my new, but very early, philosophy on this matter is that I ought to strive to be honest in interactions with other human beings and that I should dedicate my faculties to listen and observe, as if I were listening to music that works on me, or observing a thing of beauty, like the south-bay-area sun.

Granted, I've learned more than that, but all this is to say that I've lived unconsciously for too long. In a few hours begins a decade that I'd want to live (emphasis on this, not survive) with ultimate deliberation, singleness of purpose, genuineness of heart, and intensity of focus. I want to bring myself to focus on two things: 1. love and 2. work. The past unconscious years have been training for what's to come. I understand that these are too large of bullseyes to aim my dart with intent, but this is what I know now; I'll be keen to develop my foci over time, very seriously.

## On love and work

Let me expand on what I mean by both:

1. **Love:** be a person worth calling a friend, a shoulder to lean on. The definition of love that I grew to confer with the most is, *love is **knowing** someone and letting them **know** you*; get to know people, be genuinely curious about their lives — where they come from, where they seek to go, moments that define their lives... Truly listen, my heart, and pray for a pureness in spirit that I may be such a person in perpetuity; Strive for this.

2. **Work:** follow the hermetic philosophy of creation. Create more than you consume. Become an expert. Become reliable. Say yes to only the few things that I will do with excellence, and for such things, think creatively and humanely such that you provide value so idiosyncratic in nature, that only you can do. Seek out a rhythmic habit for your work, and only prioritize putting forward work that you deem good/decent/great.

   More specifically, I am a knowledge worker therefore making my main craft to be that of the mind. My main technical interests lie in computer systems and artificial intelligence. A level beneath are my interests in mathematics and computational biology. Artistically, I am interested in good writing, and am curious to make essays and poetry. My artistic hobbies are photography and DJing.

   I need to develop a better idea of what I'd want to do in each of these spaces, but for now I know that technically I want to truly understand things, and make (beautiful) things that other people use. A näive way to measure this in technology is keeping count of the number of people who use what you made. If a lot of people are standing on your shoulders, then you have built something technically beautiful. As far as I understand, the technical (computer science) work can fall in one of the following three buckets: 1) startup, the most successful of which makes the most users happy; 2) big open source project (used by a lot of people); 3) seminal research paper. Given that I don't know of a better measure, I shall go with this for my work in systems, AI, mathematics and computational biology. Of course, good work takes a lot of time and it'll take a while before I am able to generate work that falls into one of these buckets, but it's good to know that that's what I am working towards. Artistically, I want to, similarly, make beautiful things, but those that stand the test of time. My measure here is, very vain; with writing it's, first, meeting my satisfaction level (which I'd say I believe in), and, second, submitting for publication in different avenues. I'd be successful if I write, more and more, essays and poems that I like, and become accepted for publication (Rilke warns against this).

   Given my life circumstances and aspirations, my priority will rest on technical work, while I hope to maintain a habit of writing.

Both of these come together, quoting Gibran:

> *"Work is love made visible"*

Given the above breakdown, my local focus will be to 1) be genuine and curious among my fellow men 2) code and study 3) write.

That said, the list below enumerates what I hope to achieve in my 22nd year. God give me strength:

## Goals for 22

### Habits
1. Write nontrivial + beautiful (tested, clean, commented) code everyday (bright green github calendar)
2. Write a poem every week\[end\] and an essay once a month (New York Times publishable)
3. Journal every day (aspiring for a sophistication like Emerson's)
4. Read daily
5. Learn how to be good with money
6. Work out every week MWF, run SS
7. Eat (get to 75kg) and sleep well

### Technical
1. Keep a technical blog
2. Write an OS
3. Write a compiler
4. Write a minimal neural network library, like PyTorch
5. Write a weekend project every week, in one of the following languages to master: C/C++, CUDA, Rust, Go, Python
6. Master (at least a 1st-year-AI-PhD-level) AI theory/math: convex optimization, information theory, mathematical statistics, probability, bayesian machine learning, and fundamental mathematical tools of main AI fields (NLP, CV, RL, Graph DL, biology machine learning)
7. Begin contributing to one of the following open source projects: JAX, flax, mojo, pytorch, tvm
8. Read and implement the most important papers in distributed systems
9. Get to the frontier of computer vision (random field of choice, I hope I like it): read and implement papers till most recent ones
10. Solve 3,000 leetcode problems
11. Brainstorm and build 10 production-ready AI applications in NLP, CV, RL, Graph DL and/or bioML

### Artistic
1. Pick and send my best poems, essays for submission each month
2. Pick and send my best pictures for submission to photovogue, perhaps other places
3. DJ a boilerroom at PKT (lol)

### Other
1. Graduate
2. Get into MEng
3. Get an FB return offer
4. Get a FT job at Deepmind, DE Shaw Research, FAIR

The technical part is definitely going to be challenging, but I hope it will all be fun. To do this well, I need to establish an unshakeable working habit, and be able to measure it. The plan for now is a few hours of deep work a day towards these brain-heavy ends. In some cases, I'll measure my productivity with lines of and complexity of code written, in others, the number of problems solved, and generally, number of hours spent.

Generally, I want to tend to my inner garden, "contemplate & nourish my independence", and cultivate "a firmness of purpose."

Let's turn 22!

---

> "October 25, 1820. I find myself often idle, vagrant, stupid, & hollow. This is somewhat appalling & if I do not discipline myself with diligent care I shall suffer severely from the remorse & the sense of inferiority hereafter. All around me are industrious & will be great, I am indolent & shall be insignificant. Avert it heaven! avert it virtue! I need excitement."
>
> — Ralph Waldo Emerson
